Hello everybody and welcome to the end of section challenge.
This one's going to be a bigger challenge than normal so brace yourselves for some epic work.
Now this is going to bring together every bit of knowledge you've learned so far in section 1 2 and
3 we're going to bring it all together now and produce a wonderful animation.
So I'd like you to go ahead and produce a final animation for your scene.
Make it between two and five seconds long.
I'll let you use the judgment when it comes to what frame rate you want to be able to play it back at.
I would suggest a minimum of around 10 frames per second.
Finally keep it simple keep it organized so you don't get lost when making it and keep it straight forward
as well.
And of course once you're done I'm eagerly waiting to see what you come up with.
So please do share it over in the discussions.
Pause video now and give it a go.
Hello everyone welcome back.
Right.
Let's go in and I'm going to go through the final challenge myself and produce a two to five second
long animation of my scene.
Okay so the video you're watching here is slightly sped up so we can talk you through what I'm doing.
So I've got guimpe in front of me here.
And the first thing that I'm going to do is just rename my file so I'm working on a new section so the
end of section challenge in this case.
And then after that I'm thinking about what I'm going to do and I really want to limit my canvas size
some working in the right way.
I inadvertently cut it the wrong way at this point and I don't notice but that's okay because remember
any point you can undo and go back again.
So I go back here and change it but this time keeping the other side.
I think I wasn't quite sure whether to have the large table small table.
I think the smaller table did work better especially underneath that window there.
The next thing of course to do is to start just making sure everything is organized and in the right
position and of course there's a load of stuff there that needed to be removed at this point.
Then it was a matter of going through and just optimizing all the stuff by shrinking those layers down
to the image size.
Then I know that when it comes to making the animation itself it's not going to cause me a headache
with any memory problems or at least I hope it won't do anyway.
OK.
This point is ready to start creating these first frames so it's putting everything in double checking
everything's ready to go and then I can go ahead and make my frames.
Now in this case I've thought about it carefully and I decided to go with just a rapid duplication of
the number of frames I want to work on and then adjusting it accordingly self always got a base that
I can go back to at any point.
So I've gone for 10 frames here.
Obviously this will be a a one second image but I've got an idea at the end of using blender especially
the animation blend filter especially with fire.
That's going to be much easier now it's just a matter of going through and tweaking the flames and the
light reflection on the ground and the candle as well as the light around there so you'll see now under
the speed that the video a little bit more as I go through each one of these and literally I'm just
using the smudged tool going through smudges in it slightly and then towards the end I realize that
I've smudged them all quite a bit and I need to smudge the first one as well so all matches.
Okay so that took a few minutes to do.
I'm just going back here and doing the final ones making sure that they're all working.
And then it's a matter of playing it back and checking it works.
Now of course it's really small at this point so I go into image after saving it.
I do remember to save it first before altering the file drastically.
And then I save it as a scaled up version just I can keep these changes as well.
But go ahead here and scale it up quite a bit.
And I've got a memory error.
So I go and sort that out.
I'm pretty sure I changed this already but I'm going to go into the preferences so edit preferences
go to the environment and turn up the amount of memory in this time give it a whole gigabyte which is
a thousand and twenty four.
After doing that scale in the end which results in it actually working I can play back and test what's
going on and it looks really really nice.
Finally after I've done that of course it's time to scale it.
Now I've got a target platform resolution of 500.
I give that a go on a bit dubious of whether it's going to work or not but it does fortunately not artefact
too much.
I get the warning about cropping the image because there's some layers that are outside of the canvas
and I get an error.
Yes I've forgotten to collapse my images so go down.
Admittedly at this point I was not just focussed on exporting and I'm working on a scaled up version
and not the original but I do remember after doing it immediately to save my work.
Now I go and export it this time.
Let's have a look at the results.
There we go.
It looks really good.
I'm really pleased with how it's turned out.
But it is a bit jittery and I think we can do a little better than that.
And I recall the blend.
It's also not long enough at the moment even though it's List linked.
So I think the blend would work really well with this.
So go and open up the file again the original file.
And then set the image size a slightly larger this time 1 0 2 4.
Want a really good animation that I can show off.
And again with the interpellation off and then finally go into animation checking that that works it
does going to blend.
Now this was a tough decision but I went with three individual frames.
This is probably the longest time I had to wait while it process that I ended up with 36 frames in total
and we playback the animation.
It looks far better.
And let's see what that looks like now.
Without it being sped up so you can see it properly.
So go ahead an exporter after calculating it needs to be around the 40 millisecond time before between
the frames and we end up with an animation that looks like the following.
And I'm really.
Oh no it crashed.
No worries.
I'm just saving as a separate file this time rather than overwriting the original one and this time
round.
It works.
Don't know why it didn't work the first time around.
Don't worry if GIMP does do that of course you can always try again.
Then once that happened I have my final animated image.
Excellent.
I'm really proud of how that's come out and I'm sure you are with yours too.
Please do share your work over on the forum and I will see you all in the next lecture.